greetings everyone all over this watered
world of ours Laszlo Montgomery hair
back in Clermont but not for long I'm
new hampshire bound on wednesday and
then off to the town of charlotte
vermont and then back here on friday but
before I go I am offering up to everyone
our first China history podcast since
May 3rd when we did the Ching dynasty
part 7 and finished those guys off since
that episode we've had the review of the
overviews and the Q&A episode but those
don't really come we're back with the
real deal today and I'm choosing a topic
today that was not the one I originally
intended to do I was going to sort of
pick up after Paul Yi abdicated and then
look at the immediate aftermath of the
Shanghai rebellion but I picked up a
story on my Twitter feed about a bill
introduced to Congress and sponsored by
la zone
the Honorable congresswoman from the
32nd district here in California Judy
Chu known throughout the Chinese
speaking world is Chao Mei Xin she is
among other achievements the former
mayor of Monterey Park aka little Taipei
that City has sort of been the center of
gravity for all Chinese of the San
Gabriel Valley communities here she's
had a wonderful life in academia and
government public service and dr. Chiu
also has the honor of being the first
chinese-american ever elected to the US
Congress this was in 2009 congresswoman
Chu is calling for a resolution calling
on Congress to formally acknowledge and
express regret for the discriminative
laws against Chinese Americans
particularly between 1882 to 1943 the
resolution was introduced this past
Thursday it all began with local
grassroots efforts from chinese-american
communities along with dr. chu our
congresswoman Judy biggert of Illinois
13th district that's the southwest
suburbs of sure
ago in Colorado Representative Mike
Coffman who serves the people south of
Denver in the beautiful town at Castle
Rock they're joined by Senators Dianne
Feinstein of my state here California
and Scott Brown of Massachusetts I'm
sure we'll be hearing a lot about this
in the weeks to come so I thought this
would be a great topic to look at today
the whole history of the Chinese
Exclusion Act of 1882 and all the events
that led up to it this is not what you
call one of the finest moments here in
the USA with the exception of a very
chosen few pretty much the lion's share
of the 300 million or so citizens of the
USA came from immigrant parents or
grandparents or at least
great-grandparents I know I did
essentially the Chinese Exclusion Act of
1882 was the first major law to come out
of our government that restricted
immigration to the US of a single ethnic
group namely the Chinese the resolution
introduced to Congress will essentially
call for a kind of apology for all the
stuff that went down in the late 19th
and early 20th centuries that not only
discriminated heavily against the
Chinese but sort of created a political
atmosphere was ok to bash Chinese and
take all kinds of measures to make their
lives miserable or at the very least
inconvenient here in the US so let's
wind the clock back all the way to
January 1848 our tale begins there in a
town called Coloma California which was
halfway between Sacramento and Lake
Tahoe at a place called Sutter's Mill a
man named James W Marshall found gold in
the American River that ran through the
town
Marshall was helping mr. Sutter to build
a sawmill on his property but once gold
was discovered the sawmill sort of got
back-burnered and the California Gold
Rush happened instead now if you recall
from our Ching dynasty podcasts the
1840s 50s and 60s was
perfectly awful time in China
you had the opium war in the Treaty of
Nanjing in 1842 and the Taiping
rebellion among a myriad of other social
disturbances that had a lot of Chinese
running for the exits
those Chinese caught up in all the
history happening around them that had
the wherewithal and the guts bolted from
the safety and comfort of their homes
and families and emigrated to parts all
over the world including Southeast Asia
Europe in the United States the first
major wave of Chinese immigrants who
came to the US were there for one thing
only they were a source of lower cost
labor to work the gold mines and later
to build the railroads they worked for
as much as 40% less than what the mining
companies had to pay the white workers
so the same old song you hear today with
immigrants from south of our border
depressing wages and stealing jobs from
self-respecting Americans was also being
sung back in the nineteenth century too
but back in the 1850s and 1860s the rush
was on and times were good so although
racism and unfair treatment against
Chinese was present it hadn't yet gotten
out of hand
the first 500 Chinese immigrants made
their way over about 1850 to work the
mines mind you besides these 500 Chinese
they were also fifty-seven thousand two
hundred eighty-seven other immigrant
miners who came from elsewhere but not
from China however the Chinese miners
were especially wanted because they were
willing to work harder keep their mouths
shut and were willing to put up with
lousy or working conditions than the
next guy a tax of $20 per month was put
on these laborers it was meant to affect
all foreigners but was targeted
specifically at Chinese miners this was
one of the first of many and justices
they had to face just trying to make it
here in 1852 there were eleven thousand
seven hundred ninety four Chinese
immigrants living in California of which
seven were women this total number of
immigrants quickly shot up to twenty
thousand mostly working in the gold
mines in northern
California in 1854 though things started
to get a little dicey for the Chinese
and it was a bad sign when California
Supreme Court justice humor II delivered
his opinion and the people of the state
of California versus George W Hall good
old people versus Hall George Hall was a
white man who beat up and killed a
Chinese miner named Ling Singh three
Chinese witnesses had testified to the
killing of ling by hall but the judge's
ruling effectively said Chinese
immigrants had no right to testify
against a white man African Americans
and Indians had already suffered this
fate and all the judge did was had
Chinese to this group so after the
People vs Hall it effectively gave a
kind of a seal of approval to violence
against Chinese by Caucasian Americans
things really came to a head in 1877
when you had the anti-chinese riots in
San Francisco following the great
railroad strike but we'll get to that in
a minute
in 1868 you had the Burlingame Seward
treaty between the US and China it
amended the hated Treaty of 10:00 Jean
of 1858 which we discussed in the ching
dynasty part 5 episode with this
Burlingame treaty good relations between
the US and China were formally
established and China got most favored
nation status the treaty was ratified in
Beijing the next year in 1869 now if you
recall this was during the time of the
Tong chair emperor who was the Empress
Dowager Sushi's son and who she ruled
through he was the Emperor of the Tony
chair restoration the Tom chair John
Ching that was stopped in its tracks by
the Emperor's mother the Burlingame
treaty as it became known among other
things gave a boost to Chinese
immigration into the USA and offered
immigrants a pathway to naturalization
the Chinese who had made their way to
America and who were building a future
in Jojen Shan as San Francisco was
called old Gold Hills they needed to
build a sub
court system to take care of their
particular needs and thus the six
tongues were formed to give
representation to the Chinese and
organize their interests a tongue or a
tongue as known in Mandarin means a
meeting hall these tongs were linked to
the programming down groups in China
known as the Chinese consolidated
Benevolent Association jumbo higuan now
some of these tongs as we know degraded
into criminal activity and became
nothing more than gangs but many at the
time provided essential services to
Chinese immigrants they were created out
of necessity Chinese had they had
nowhere to go and they needed the
support of those who had come before
them and knew all the necessary survival
skills and in the United States 1862 was
a banner year when the Pacific Railroad
bill was passed which green lighted a
Transcontinental Railroad for the US the
next year in 1863 the Central Pacific
Railroad broke ground white workers
threatening a strike in 1865 prompted
railroad bosses to bring in the first 50
Chinese laborers and then in two short
years by 1867 ninety percent of the
workers building the railroads in the US
for Chinese things were starting to look
dismal for the Chinese you hit the
working man's party founded in San
Francisco in 1867 with their slogan the
Chinese must go the party was led by an
Irishman named Denis Kearney he wasn't
the first and certainly not the last
American politician to seize on racism
as a way to stir up the voters and get
them to flock to his side he organized
all these anti Chinese rallies in San
Francisco outside Old City Hall down the
street in Chinatown Kearney Street in
San Francisco Chinatown is not named for
him by the way that was a different
Kearney
so anyway the working man's party
initiated and secretly sponsored all
kinds of violence against the Chinese
and used all their tricks to stir up
anti-chinese sentiment with so many
Chinese now entering the country as a
result of the Burlingame
the anti Chinese immigration forces
started to organize more and become more
vociferous in their denouncements of
this policy even California's third
governor john Bigler made fiery
anti-chinese speeches and urged
Californians to quote check this tide of
Asiatic immigration Governor John Bigler
was no less a racist than any other
governor you might find in the deep
south during the Jim Crow days he
sponsored all kinds of legislation that
targeted the Chinese and anything that
took from them our inhibited their
success and achieving the American dream
was okay with governor Bigler so the
1870s roll around and the Gold Rush is
over and when the panic of 1873 hits the
Chinese in the United States really have
to band together to fend off what was
coming the panic of 1873 like the times
we are in right now
or perhaps emerging out of right now was
a worldwide depression that affected
Europe in the u.s. mostly following
Germany's abandonment of the silver
standard in 1871 after the
franco-prussian war a worldwide slump in
the price of silver ensued this started
in Europe and it spread to the US banks
and then banks started failing and all
the major financial centers in the US
and in the railroad business there was
364 railroads and then the US and 89 of
them went bankrupt businesses failed and
massive unemployment yet 14%
unemployment sounds terribly familiar
doesn't it well when times get tough you
have to find somebody to blame with such
high unemployment the natural targets
were of course immigrants back then as
they do today immigrants were always
willing to work a little harder for less
money and the chance that they could
gain a foothold and create a foundation
for their children and their
grandchildren and if conditions were
deplorable
well immigrants usually kept their
mouths shut and just sort of put up with
it and capitalism being what it is big
businesses
pendant on immigrants to provide lower
cost labor that led to greater profits
and company performance the white
workers had to I to work for less or
stay employed they vented their spleen
against the Chinese and any candidate
for political office back then merely
had to adopt an anti Chinese platform
and they'd get votes in popularity the
fact that Chinese like many other
immigrant groups tended to stick
together and you know we're slow to
adopt American customs it just made
things worse and was a point that
infuriated Americans that already had
these racist tendencies and word had
traveled about all the atrocities that
were going on during the Taiping
rebellion and stories of murdered
Christian missionaries and hardships
Westerners faced in China were all
popularized in the US press so this
didn't help the Chinese in the u.s.
court of public opinion
violence against Chinese wasn't just
happening in San Francisco's Chinatown
on October 24th you at the Chinese
massacre of
1871 five hundred White's ride it and
attacked Chinese in LA's Chinatown when
it was all over there were 15 Chinese
found hanging from various spots around
Chinatown every building and place of
business have been ransacked
the LA coroner pronounced 18 dead but
the true number of Chinese killed that
night and the massacre was high as 84 he
could visit the massacre site today
there's a Chinese American Museum there
right on Los Angeles Street which back
in 1871 was known as the dreaded calle
de los negros 15 years later in Rock
Springs Wyoming you had the Rock Springs
Massacre which was all about racist
tension that grew about as a result of
animosity of Chinese laborers who gladly
took $32.50 a month pay which undercut
the white workers who had demanded fifty
two dollars a month so mostly Swedish
and English workers they let the rioting
against the Chinese and in the end 28
Chinese were killed and 15 injured and
of course Chinese homes and businesses
were burned to the ground so California
Wyoming
also in the Washington territory in the
northwest Chinese faced all this
hostility violence this really was a
golden age if you want to call it that
of anti Chinese racism in the United
States go on the Google and search for
images related to Chinese Exclusion acts
and you'll see the most vile racist the
most outrageous political cartoons
racist propaganda you can't believe
anyone would openly say such things but
not only was it pervasive it was
downright popular you see the US economy
didn't know didn't recover so quickly
from the civil war and like I said once
the real hard times hit in the 1870s the
easiest thing to do was vent one's anger
against the easiest ones to lash out
against and politicians then as they do
today they tap into that vein of hatred
and it's a powerful force that
unfortunately is extremely useful in a
in a Machiavellian kind of way and what
can I say tapping into fear loathing and
hatred was as much a vote getter back
then as it is today I included a few of
these political cartoons on my website
at China History podcast.com if you're
interested go search for them on the web
they're not hard to find this depression
that did so much to fuel the anti
Chinese and anti-immigrant hatred lasts
until about 1879 but it was in 1877 that
you had the great railroad strike mine
you in 1870 you had about 50,000 Chinese
in California and 75,000 by 1879
this was 9% of California's total
population since the Chinese laborers
who were called coolies from the Chinese
word bitter labor they were
symbols of scorn and infuriated
California's hard-up and unemployed
anti-chinese sentiment was really
spreading and in these hard times if you
were a politician with any good sense
all you had to do was bash the Chinese
and blame everything on them and it was
wonderful way gained votes in politics
spreading fair lies and racism worked as
well back then as it does today 1876 to
1878 were some rough times in California
you saw it downright destitute people
living in streets and surviving on
whatever charity there was mobs would
get stirred up and they'd start rioting
and attacking Chinese businesses in July
1870 seventy at three bloody nights of
anti-chinese riots in San Francisco it
was a terrible time for Chinese in a
terrible moment in the annals of US
history so the tone was set for what
became known as the Chinese Exclusion
Act in 1879 legislation was passed
calling for a curb on Chinese
immigration but the 19th president
referred Behe's vetoed this on the
grounds that it violated the Burlingame
treaty however the next year in 1880
after massive political beatings Hays
took at the hands of Democrats the
Chinese Exclusion treaty was signed
which was followed in 1882 by the
infamous Chinese Exclusion Act the
Treaty of 1880 curbed the number of
Chinese immigrants allowed into the US
as well as how many could become
naturalized citizens the Act which
followed in 1882
slam the door shut can prevented any
immigration at all of Chinese immigrants
to the US the Chinese Exclusion Act of
was signed by Chester Alan Arthur who
became the 21st president after the
assassination of James Abram Garfield in
Washington DC in 1881 a ten year
moratorium was put into effect on any
Chinese immigration any resident aliens
applying for citizenship had two chances
of succeeding little and none so now for
the first time in US history a law is
passed that prohibits immigration
targeting a specific race of people and
not only did it halt Chinese immigration
it also presented huge hardships to
Chinese already here and made it next to
impossible to leave the US and get
without jumping through endless hoops
the labor unions were all big supporters
of the exclusion acts as you might
imagine they would so ten years goes by
and now it's 1892 and all they do is say
10 more years you have the Bagheri Act
sponsored by California Congressman
Thomas J Geary it extended the Chinese
Exclusion Act for another ten years with
an additional twist those Chinese
immigrants who were legal had to
register and carry papers with them at
all times that amounted to a passport
that they had to use in their own
country if you were stopped by the law
and someone demanded show me your papers
if you didn't have them you'd get
deported so this goes on for another ten
years and now we're in the 20th century
the Boxer Rebellion it just happened and
all the bad press it gave China so it's
now 1902 and rather than repeal the
Chinese Exclusion Act or given another
10 years the US government in its
infinite wisdom says let's make this
permanent one thing that came about that
was quite interesting was this by law if
you were illegal Chinese citizen of the
US you got to apply for two children to
come to the u.s. from China well a kind
of scam started whereby legal Chinese
citizens of the US could sell their
rights so to speak for the immigration
of their two children in China so let's
say mister Wong is legal and yes that's
right but he hasn't used it yet
now mr. Lumm he has two kids but he's
trying like crazy to get here but he's
not legal and doesn't have this right
but he does have some kind of special
relationship with mr. Wong and they
could work out a deal whereby mr. Wong
will arrange for the immigration of mr.
lumps to children or whoever they were
using his legal rights then mr. Long's
kids arrived but they're forced to go
through life as the children of Mr Wong
lest the authorities find out that these
were mayor papers sons and would be
promptly deported all city records were
destroyed in the great San Francisco
earthquake of 1906 so it was very easy
for mr. Wong and mr. Lam to take
advantage of the disruptions in the
so a whole generation of these paper
sons as they all came to be known grew
up in the China towns of California the
stories about what these guys endured
using every method at their disposal
trained by wise immigrants who had
succeeded and passed on their wisdom
about how to dupe the immigration
authorities when the time came only in
the 1950s were these paper sons granted
amnesty and allowed to reveal their true
identities and Angel Island you may have
heard of that place before it was
referred to as the Ellis Island of the
West from 1910 to 1940 when a fire
closed the place down it served as an
immigration station where approximately
a million Asian immigrants were
processed this might be a whole topic
for a future podcast the stories are
quite incredible as they were in Ellis
Island of the hardships tragedies and
justices that immigrants faced on Angel
Island well this all went on until 1943
the year the US and China became allies
against the Japanese in World War two
finally in 1943 61 years after Chester
Arthur signed the Chinese Exclusion Act
into law a bill sponsored by Warren G
Magnuson of Washington State has passed
it's known as the Magnuson act and
repealed the Chinese Exclusion Act
Chinese immigration now resumed for the
first time since 1882 the MindView the
number was limited to only a hundred and
five a year there were still
restrictions on Chinese owning property
and businesses but all this would
disappear later many Chinese now had the
road to naturalization open to them and
then things began to cool down after so
many decades of racial tension and
hatred the times were changing the world
was changing the post-war economic boom
that happened after World War Two was
about to take off an American
hey when times are good no one's
concerned about finding anyone to blame
so the story ends 1965 with the passing
of the Immigration and Nationality
Act this Act was heavily sponsored by
the late Senator Ted Kennedy whose
Senate seat is now occupied by Senator
Scott Brown who as I mentioned as a
co-sponsor of this resolution I
mentioned at the beginning of the
podcast also known as the heart cellar
act what it did was to abolish what was
known as the National Origins quotas
that had been put in place in the 1920s
that said you got so many from this
country allowed in and X amount from
this one and whatever from that one it
was unfair very arbitrary
with the heart cellar Act which
President Johnson signed into law
October 3rd 1965 a more fair system was
put in place which used a a preference
system that took into consideration
family relationships skills and whatnot
LBJ signed this into law at the Statue
of Liberty and so it is that now we have
this resolution now up for a vote it
calls for the US government to issue an
apology or expression of regret for all
that happened to the Chinese in America
during this long period of government
supported racism some may say you know
so long ago why do we have to dredge all
this past injustice up and cause all
these hard feelings and and someone on
the right might say why do we have to
apologize and that's beneath the US well
you know well we'll see what happens
there's gonna be a vote soon and after
reading about this I thought hey this
might be a good idea to look at this
period of history and get informed about
all that went on and what this was all
about so that we could better understand
this issue that's before us today
you know the generation of Chinese
Americans who were directly affected by
these racist immigration laws are of the
age where they are now slowly starting
to pass from this earth so perhaps it
wouldn't be a bad thing to acknowledge
this dark chapter from American history
while they're still here so that they
may get some closure to this and so
anyways that was the whole deal with the
Chinese Exclusion Act will be watching
the outcome of the vote on this upcoming
resolution so I think we'll call it a
day right here this is Lazlo Montgomery
once again bidding at
around the world and around the u.s.
fond and friendly farewell from yes
lovely Claremont California the city of
trees and PhDs
we have more PhDs for square inch than
any other place in the US of A or
something like that thanks for listening
everyone the new website is coming keep
hanging in there join us next week won't
you for another exciting episode of the
China history podcast